.\" $Id: cfiasco.1,v 1.6 2000/07/18 16:44:17 hafner Exp $
.TH cfiasco 1 "April, 2000" "FIASCO" "Fractal Image And Sequence COdec"

.SH NAME
.B  cfiasco
\- Compress image files to a FIASCO file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  cfiasco \fP[\fIoption\fP]... [\fIfilename\fP]...

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\|\fBcfiasco\fP\| compresses the named image file(s), or the
standard input if no file is named, and produces a FIASCO file on the
standard output. The input images have to be in raw pgm(5) or ppm(5)
format.

.SH OPTIONS
All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --optimize may be
written --optim or --opt. For most options an one letter short option
is provided. Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are
mandatory or optional for short options, too. Both short and long
options are case sensitive.

The basic options are:

.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-\-input-name=\fIname\fP
Compress the named image(s), not standard input. The only supported
image format is the raw pgm(5) or ppm(5) format. If \fIname\fP is -,
read standard input.  \fIname\fP either has to be an image
filename or a template of the form:

.ce
prefix[start-end{+,-}step]suffix

Templates are useful when compressing video streams: e.g., if the template
"img0[12-01-2].pgm" is given, then \|\fBcfiasco\fP\| compresses the
images img012.pgm, img010.pgm, ..., img002.pgm.

If \fIname\fP is a relative path then the images are searched for in
the current directory and in the (colon-separated) list of directories
given by the environment variable \fBFIASCO_IMAGES\fP.

.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput-file\fP, \fB\-\-output-name=\fIname\fP
Write FIASCO output to the named file, not to standard output.

If \fIname\fP is a relative path and the environment variable
\fBFIASCO_DATA\fP is a (colon-separated) list of directories, then the
output file is written to the first (writable) directory of this
list. Otherwise, the current directory is used to store the output
file.

.TP
\fB\-q\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-quality=\fIN\fP
Set quality of compression to \fIN\fP. Quality is 1 (worst) to 100
(best); default is 20.

.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fItext\fP, \fB\-\-title=\fItext\fP
Set title of FIASCO stream to \fItext\fP. 

.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fItext\fP, \fB\-\-comment=\fItext\fP
Set comment of FIASCO stream to \fItext\fP. 

.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version
Print \|\fBcfiasco\fP\| version number, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-V\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-verbose \fIN\fP
Set level of verbosity to \fIN\fP. Level is 0 (no output at all), 1
(show progress meter), or 2 (show detailed compression statistics);
default is 1.

.TP
\fB\-\-progress-meter \fIN\fP
Set type of progress-meter to \fIN\fP. The following types are
available; default is 1: 

\fB0\fP: no progress meter

\fB1\fP: RPM style progress bar using 50 hash marks

\fB2\fP: percentage meter

.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-\-config=\fIname\fP
Load parameter file \fIname\fP to initialize the options of
\|\fBcfiasco\fP\|. See file \fIsystem.fiascorc\fP for an example of the
syntax. Options of \|\fBcfiasco\fP\| are set by any of
the following methods (in the specified order):

1.) Global ressource file \fIsystem.fiascorc\fP

2.) $HOME/.fiascorc

3.) command line

4.) --config=\fIname\fP

.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-info
Print brief help, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-H\fP, \fB\-\-help
Print detailed help, then exit.

.TP
The options for advanced users are:

.TP
\fB\-\-basis-name=\fIname\fP
Preload compression basis \fIname\fP into FIASCO. The basis \fIname\fP
provides the initial compression dictionary.  Either use one of the
files "small.fco", "medium.fco", or "large.fco" that come with
\|\fBcfiasco\fP\| or create a new ASCII basis file.
   
.TP
\fB\-z\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-optimize=\fIN\fP
Set optimization level to \fIN\fP. Level is 0 (fastes) to 3 (slowest);
default is 1. Be warned, the encoding time dramatically increased when
\fIN\fP=2 or \fIN\fP=3 while the compression performance only slightly
improves.

.TP
\fB\-\-prediction
Use additional predictive coding. If this optimization is enabled then
the image is compressed in two steps. In the first step, a coarse
approximation of the image is computed using large unichrome
blocks. Finally, the delta image is computed and the prediction error
is approximated using the standard FIASCO algorithm.

.TP
\fB\-\-dictionary-size=\fIN\fP
Set size of dictionary that is used when coding the luminance
band to \fIN\fP; default is 10000, i.e., the dictionary is not
restricted.

.TP
\fB\-\-chroma-dictionary=\fIN\fP
Set size of dictionary that is used when coding chroma bands to
\fIN\fP; default is 40. 

.TP
\fB\-\-chroma-qfactor=\fIN\fP
Reduce the quality of chroma band compression \fIN\fP-times with
respect to the user defined quality \fIq\fP of the luminance
band compression (\fB\-\-quality\fP=\fIq\fP); default is 2.

.TP
\fB\-\-tiling-exponent=\fIN\fP
Subdivide the image into 2^\fIN\fP tiles prior coding; default is 4,
i.e. the image is subdivided into 16 tiles. The processing order of
the individual tiles is defined by the option
\fB\-\-tiling-method=\fIname\fP. 

.TP
\fB\-\-tiling-method=\fIname\fP
Order the individual image tiles (the image is subdivided into; see
option \fB\-\-tiling-exponent=\fP\fIN\fP) by method \fIname\fP; default
is "desc-variance".

\fBdesc-variance\fP: Tiles with small variances are processed first.

\fBasc-variance\fP: Tiles with large variances are processed first.

\fBdesc-spiral\fP: Tiles are process in spiral order starting in the
middle. 

\fBasc-spiral\fP: Tiles are process in spiral order starting at the
border.

.TP
\fB\-\-rpf-mantissa=\fIN\fP
Use \fIN\fP mantissa bits for quantized coefficients.

.TP
\fB\-\-dc-rpf-mantissa=\fIN\fP
Use \fIN\fP mantissa bits for quantized DC coefficients.

.TP
\fB\-\-rpf-range=\fIN\fP
Coefficients outside the quantization interval [-\fIN\fP,+\fIN\fP] are
set to zero.

.TP
\fB\-\-dc-rpf-range=\fIN\fP
DC coefficients outside the quantization interval [-\fIN\fP,+\fIN\fP] are
set to zero.

.TP
Additional options for video compression are:

.TP
\fB\-\-smooth=\fIN\fP
Smooth decompressed reference frames along the partitioning borders by
the given amount \fIN\fP. \fIN\fP is 0 (no smoothing) to 100; default
is 70. This factor is stored in the FIASCO file. 

.TP
\fB\-\-min-level=\fIN\fP
Start prediction (motion compensated prediction or additional prediction) on
block level \fIN\fP; default is level 6. I.e., motion compensation is
applied to all image blocks of at least 8x8 pixels (binary tree level
\fIN\fP=6), 16x8 (\fIN\fP=7), 16x16 (\fIN\fP=8), etc.

.TP
\fB\-\-max-level=\fIN\fP
Stop prediction (motion compensated prediction or additional prediction) on
block level \fIN\fP; default is level 10. I.e., motion compensation is
applied to all image blocks of at most 16x16 pixels (\fIN\fP=8),
32x16 (\fIN\fP=9), 32x32 (\fIN\fP=10), etc.

.TP
\fB\-\-half-pixel
Use half pixel precise motion compensation.

.TP
\fB\-\-fps=\fIN\fP
Set number of frames per second to \fIN\fP. This value is stored in
the FIASCO output file and is used in the decoder dfiasco(1) to control the
framerate.

.TP
\fB\-\-pattern=\fItype\fP
Defines the type of inter frame compression which should be applied to
individual frames of a video stream. \fItype\fP is a sequence of
characters; default is "IPPPPPPPPP". Element \fBN\fP defines the type
of predicting which should be used for frame \fBN\fP; the frame type
pattern is periodically extended. Valid characters are:

\fBI\fP: intra frame, i.e., no motion compensated prediction is used at
all.

\fBP\fP: predicted frame, i.e., a previously encoded frame is used for
prediction (forward prediction).

\fBB\fP: bidirectional predicted frame, i.e., not only a previously
shown frame but also a frame of the future is used for prediction
(forward, backward or interpolated prediction). 

.TP
\fB\-\-cross-B-search
Instead of using exhaustive search the "Cross-B-Search" algorithm
is used to find the best interpolated prediction of B-frames.

.TP
\fB\-\-B-as-past-ref
Also use previously encoded B-frames when prediction the current
frame. If this option is not set, only I- and P-frames are used to
predict the current frame.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
cfiasco < foo.ppm >foo.wfa
Compress the still image "foo.ppm" to the FIASCO file "foo.wfa" using
the default options.

.TP
cfiasco --half-pixel --pattern="IBBPBBPBB" --fps 15 -o video.wfa foo0*.ppm 
Compress the video frames "foo0*.ppm" to the FIASCO file "video.wfa" using
half pixel precise motion compensation at a frame rate of 15 frames
per second. Intra frame 1 is used to predict P-frame 4, frames 1 and 4
are used to predict B-frames 2 and 3, and so on. Frame 10 is again an
intra-frame.
.RE

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I system.fiascorc
The systemwide initialization file.
.TP
.I $HOME/.fiascorc
The personal initialization file.
.PD

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.B FIASCO_IMAGES
Search path for image files. Default is "./".
.TP
.B FIASCO_DATA
Search and save path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".
.PD 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR dfiasco (1)
.br

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>
