.\" $Id: dfiasco.1,v 1.3 2000/07/16 17:35:11 hafner Exp $
.TH dfiasco 1 "April, 2000" "FIASCO" "Fractal Image And Sequence COdec"

.SH NAME
.B  dfiasco
\- Decompress and display a FIASCO file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  dfiasco \fP[\fIoption\fP]... [\fIfilename\fP]...

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\|\fBdfiasco\fP\| decompresses the named FIASCO file(s), or the
standard input if no file is named, and displays the image or video in
a X11 window. Alternatively, if option \fB\-o\fP is specified, the
decompressed images are written to image files in raw pgm(5) or ppm(5)
format.

.SH OPTIONS
All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --output may be
written --outp or --ou. For all options an one letter short option
is provided. Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are
mandatory or optional for short options, too. Both short and long
options are case sensitive.

.TP
\fB\-o\fP[\fIname\fP], \fB\-\-output=\fP[\fIname\fP]
Write decompressed image to the named file \fIname\fP.ppm (color
image) or \fIname\fP.pgm, do not display the image in a window. If
\fIname\fP=- then produce the image file on the standard output. The
optional argument \fIname\fP can be omitted, then the input filename
is used as basename with the suffix .ppm or .pgm. In case of video
streams, the frames are stored in the files \fIname\fP.\fBN\fP.ppm
where \fBN\fP is the frame number (of the form 00..0 - 99..9); output
on the standard output is not possible with video streams.

If \fIname\fP is a relative path and the environment variable
\fBFIASCO_IMAGES\fP is a (colon-separated) list of directories, then
the output file(s) are written to the first (writable) directory of
this list. Otherwise, the current directory is used to store the
output file(s).

.TP
\fB\-z\fP, \fB\-\-fast\fP
Decompress images in the 4:2:0 format; i.e., each chroma channel is
decompressed to an image of halved width and height. Use this option
on slow machines when the desired frame rate is not achieved; the
output quality is only slightly decreased. 

.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-double\fP
Double the size of the X11 window both in width and height; no pixel
interpolation is used, each pixel is just replaced by four identical
pixels.
 
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-panel\fP
Show a panel with play, stop, pause, record and exit buttons to
control the display of videos. When pressing the record button, all
frames are decompressed and stored in memory. The other buttons work
in the usual way.
 
.TP
\fB\-m\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-magnify=\fIN\fP
Set magnification of the decompressed image. Positive values enlarge
and negative values reduce the image width and height by a factor of
2^|\fIN\fP|.

.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-smoothing=\fIN\fP
Smooth decompressed image(s) along the partitioning borders by the
given amount \fIN\fP. \fIN\fP is 0 (minimum) to 100 (maximum). When
using this option, the smoothing value specified in the FIASCO file is
overridden.

.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-framerate=\fIN\fP
Set number of frames per second to \fIN\fP. When using this option,
the frame rate specified in the FIASCO file is overridden.

.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version
Print \|\fBdfiasco\fP\| version number, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-\-config=\fIname\fP
Load parameter file \fIname\fP to initialize the options of
\|\fBdfiasco\fP\|. See file \fIsystem.fiascorc\fP for an example of the
syntax. Options of \|\fBdfiasco\fP\| are set by any of
the following methods (in the specified order):

1.) Global ressource file \fIsystem.fiascorc\fP

2.) $HOME/.fiascorc

3.) command line

4.) --config=\fIname\fP

.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-info
Print brief help, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-H\fP, \fB\-\-help
Print detailed help, then exit.


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
dfiasco < foo.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO file "foo.wfa" and display the image in a window.

.TP
dfiasco -o foo1.wfa foo2.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO files "foo1.wfa" and "foo2.wfa" and write the
frames to the image files "foo1.wfa.ppm" and "foo2.wfa.ppm".

.TP
dfiasco -oimage foo1.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO file "foo1.wfa" and write all 15
frames to the image files "image.00.ppm", ... , "image.14.ppm".

.TP
dfiasco --fast --magnify=-1 --double video.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO file "video.wfa" and display the frames in a
window. The decompression speed is as fast as possible: the image is
decompressed (in 4:2:0 format) at a quarter of its original size; then
the image is enlarged again by pixel doubling. 

.RE

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I system.fiascorc
The systemwide initialization file.
.TP
.I $HOME/.fiascorc
The personal initialization file.
.PD

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.B FIASCO_IMAGES
Save path for image files. Default is "./".
.TP
.B FIASCO_DATA
Search path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".
.PD 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR cfiasco (1)
.br

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>
