.\" $Id: efiasco.1,v 1.2 2000/07/18 16:44:18 hafner Exp $
.TH efiasco 1 "July, 2000" "FIASCO" "Fractal Image And Sequence COdec"

.SH NAME
.B  efiasco
\- edit and concatenate FIASCO files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  efiasco \fP[\fIoption\fP]... \fIfilename\fP...

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\|\fBefiasco\fP\| concatenates the FIASCO stream(s)
\fIfilename\fP... and produces a new FIASCO stream on standard
output. Header information (title, smoothing, framerate etc.) can be
changed by using the options described below.

.SH OPTIONS
All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --output may be
written --outp or --ou. For all options an one letter short option
is provided. Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are
mandatory or optional for short options, too. Both short and long
options are case sensitive.

.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput-file\fP, \fB\-\-output-name=\fIname\fP
Write FIASCO output to the named file, not to standard output.

If \fIname\fP is a relative path and the environment variable
\fBFIASCO_DATA\fP is a (colon-separated) list of directories, then the
output file is written to the first (writable) directory of this
list. Otherwise, the current directory is used to store the output
file.

.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-smoothing=\fIN\fP
Smooth decompressed image(s) along the partitioning borders by the
given amount \fIN\fP. \fIN\fP is 0 (minimum) to 100 (maximum). 

.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-framerate=\fIN\fP
Set number of frames per second to \fIN\fP. 

.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fItext\fP, \fB\-\-title=\fItext\fP
Set title of FIASCO stream to \fItext\fP. 

.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fItext\fP, \fB\-\-comment=\fItext\fP
Set comment of FIASCO stream to \fItext\fP. 

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.B FIASCO_DATA
Search path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".
.PD 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR cfiasco "(1), " dfiasco (1)
.br

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Martin Grimm <grimm@informatik.uni-wuerzburg.de>
