.\" $Id: fiasco_coder.3,v 1.2 2000/10/28 17:39:32 hafner Exp $
.TH fiasco 3 "April, 2000" "FIASCO" "Fractal Image And Sequence COdec"

.SH NAME
.B  fiasco_coder
\- compress image files to a FIASCO file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fiasco.h>
.sp
.BI "int "
.fi
.BI "fiasco_coder (char const * const * "image_names ,
.fi
.BI "              const char * "fiasco_name ,
.fi
.BI "              float "quality ,
.fi
.BI "              const fiasco_c_options_t * "options );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfiasco-coder()\fP function compresses the image file(s) given
by the list of \fIimage_names\fP and creates the new FIASCO output file
\fIfiasco_name\fP. Besides the approximation \fIquality\fP, several
compression parameters can be adjusted by the class \fBoptions\fP (see
fiasco_c_options_new(3)).

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP
image_names
NULL terminated array of image filenames to process. If the first
array element is "-" or a NULL pointer then FIASCO reads the image
from standard input. Each array element either has to be an image
filename or a template of the form:

.ce
prefix[start-end{+,-}step]suffix

Templates are useful when compressing video streams: e.g., if the template
"img0[12-01-2].pgm" is given as array element, then FIASCO compresses the
images img012.pgm, img010.pgm, ..., img002.pgm (in this order).

If a filename is a relative path then the images are searched for in
the current directory and in the (colon-separated) list of directories
given by the environment variable \fBFIASCO_IMAGES\fP.

.TP
fiasco_name
Name of the FIASCO output file. If the name is "-" or NULL then the
file is produced on standard output.

If \fIfiasco_name\fP is a relative path and the environment variable
\fBFIASCO_DATA\fP is a (colon-separated) list of directories, then the
output file is written to the first (writable) directory of this
list. Otherwise, the current directory is used to store the output
file.

.TP
quality
Defines the quality of compression. Quality has to be a positive
value, its typical range is 1.0 (worst) to 100.0 (best). Larger values
are also allowed - at the cost of exploding encoding times.

.TP
options
This "class" encapsulates the various coding and decoding
parameters. Use the functions fiasco_c_options_new(3) and
fiasco_c_options_delete(3) to create and delete an object of this
class. Several member functions (see fiasco_c_options(3)) are
available to change the default values.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBfiasco_coder()\fP returns 1 if the FIASCO file has
been successfully written. If an error has been catched during
compression, 0 is returned - use the function
fiasco_get_error_message(3) to get the last error message of FIASCO.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.B FIASCO_IMAGES
Search path for image files. Default is "./".
.TP
.B FIASCO_DATA
Search and save path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".
.PD 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR fiasco_c_options_new "(3), " fiasco_c_options_delete (3), 
.br
.BR fiasco_c_options "(3), " fiasco_get_error_message (3)
.br

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>
