.\" $Id: fiasco_image_new.3,v 1.2 2000/06/14 19:26:06 hafner Exp $
.TH fiasco 3 "April, 2000" "FIASCO" "Fractal Image And Sequence COdec"

.SH NAME
.B  fiasco_image_new, fiasco_image_delete, fiasco_image_get_width,
.B  fiasco_image_get_height,  fiasco_image_is_color
\- handle FIASCO image objects

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fiasco.h>
.sp
.BI "fiasco_image_t *"
.fi
.BI "fiasco_image_new (const char * "filename );
.sp
.BI "void"
.fi
.BI "fiasco_image_delete (fiasco_image_t * "image );
.sp
.BI "unsigned"
.fi
.BI "fiasco_image_get_width (const fiasco_image_t * "image );
.sp
.BI "unsigned"
.fi
.BI "fiasco_image_get_height (const fiasco_image_t * "image );
.sp
.BI "int"
.fi
.BI "fiasco_image_is_color (const fiasco_image_t * "image );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfiasco_image_new()\fP function reads the given image file and
allocates and initializes a FIASCO image object. Use the function
fiasco_renderer_new(3) to create a renderer object that converts the
FIASCO image to the desired image format.

The function \fBfiasco_image_delete()\fP deletes the image object and
frees the image buffer. 

Image geometry and type are accessible through member functions
\fBfiasco_image_get_width()\fP,
\fBfiasco_image_get_height()\fP,
and \fBfiasco_image_is_color()\fP. 

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP
image
The image "class" encapsulates the FIASCO image object. It is used to
store the pixel values of the decoded or read image.

.TP
filename
Image filename to process. If \fIfilename\fP is "-" or a NULL pointer
then the image is read from standard input. If a filename is a
relative path then the images are searched for in the current
directory and in the (colon-separated) list of directories given by
the environment variable \fBFIASCO_IMAGES\fP.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function \fBfiasco_image_new()\fP returns a pointer to the newly
allocated image object. If an error has been catched, a NULL pointer
is returned.

The function \fBfiasco_image_get_width()\fP returns the width of the
image. If an error has been catched, 0 is returned.

The function \fBfiasco_image_get_height()\fP returns the height of the
image. If an error has been catched, 0 is returned.

The function \fBfiasco_image_is_color()\fP returns 0 if the image
object is a grayscale image, otherwise a non-zero value is returned.

In case of an error in one of the above functions, use the function
fiasco_get_error_message(3) to get a string with the last error
message of FIASCO.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR fiasco_decoder_get_frame "(3), " fiasco_get_error_message (3)
.BR fiasco_renderer_new (3)
.br

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>
